# Accessibility and Support Resources
## Accessibility:
It is my goal to create a learning experience that is as accessible as possible. If you anticipate any issues related to the format, materials, or requirements of this course, please meet with me outside of class so we can explore potential options. Students with disabilities may also wish to work with the [Student Disability Access Center](https://www.studenthealth.virginia.edu/student-disability-access-center) to discuss a range of options to removing barriers in this course, including official accommodations. Please visit their website for information on this process and to apply for services online. If you have already been approved for accommodations through SDAC, please send me your accommodation letter and meet with me so we can develop an implementation plan together.

## Specific Needs: 
The University of Virginia accommodates students with disabilities. If you need accommodations, you have a right to have these met, so it’s best to notify instructors as soon as possible. Any SCPS student with a disability who needs accommodation (e.g., in arrangements for seating, extended time for examinations, or note-taking, etc.), should contact the Student Disability Access Center (SDAC) and provide them with appropriate medical or psychological documentation of his/her condition. Once accommodations are approved, just follow up with me concerning any logistics and implementation of accommodations. Please try to make accommodations for test-taking at least 14 business days in advance of the date of the test(s). Students with disabilities are encouraged to contact the SDAC: 434-243-5180/Voice, 434-465-6579/Video Phone, 434-243-5188/Fax. Further policies and statements are available [here](www.virginia.edu/studenthealth/sdac/sdac.html).

## Religious Accommodations:
It is the University's long-standing policy and practice to reasonably accommodate students so that they do not experience an adverse academic consequence when sincerely held religious beliefs or observances conflict with academic requirements.  Students who wish to request academic accommodation for a religious observance should submit their request in writing directly to the instructor of the course. Students and instructors may contact EOCR at uvaeocr@virginia.edu or (434) 924-3200 if they have any questions regarding this policy, which is set forth in the Academic Accommodation for Religious Observances section of PROV-008: Teaching Courses for Academic Credit, the Undergraduate Record, and the Graduate Record. 

## Mental Health Support
Services for students in various forms of distress are offered by [Counseling and Psychological Services](www.studenthealth.virginia.edu/CAPS) in the Student Health and Wellness Center. During evenings and weekends, emergency crisis assistance (434-972-7004) is available. In addition, if you are concerned about another student, please call 434-243-5150 during business hours and request the consulting clinician.

## Student Safety
As members of the University of Virginia faculty, we are concerned for your safety and support a caring and violence-free environment on Grounds. We concur with the University’s intolerance of power-based violence and encourage all of us to maintain a safe community. We care about your well-being. If you or someone you know is feeling overwhelmed, stressed, or isolated, there are many individuals who want to provide help. You can make an appointment to talk with any of your instructors. The Student Health Center also offers Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) for all students. Call 434-243-5150 or the after-hours number at 434-972-7004 to schedule an appointment. If you prefer to speak anonymously and confidentially over the phone, call Madison House’s HELP line any time of the day at 434-295-8255. There is also support if you or someone you know experiences stalking, partner violence, or sexual assault. Resources can be found at [https://cavcare.virginia.edu/](https://cavcare.virginia.edu/)  and [https://justreportit.virginia.edu/](https://justreportit.virginia.edu/).
